Specify tunneling of ECN marks (#30)
ietf-wg-masque/draft-ietf-masque-connect-udp: draft-ietf-masque-connect-udp.md

out-of-band way of knowing with absolute certainty that the inner traffic is
congestion-controlled.

If a client or proxy with a connection containing a CONNECT-UDP stream disables
congestion control, it MUST NOT signal ECN support on that connection. That is,
it MUST mark all IP headers with the Not-ECT codepoint. It MAY continue to
report ECN feedback via ACK_ECN frames, as the peer may not have disabled

>  congestion control.

Author: ```suggestion
congestion control.
```

When the protocol running over UDP that is being proxied uses loss recovery
(e.g., {{QUIC}}), and the underlying HTTP connection runs over TCP, the proxied
traffic will incur at least two nested loss recovery mechanisms. This can
reduce performance as both can sometimes independently retransmit the same
data. To avoid this, HTTP/3 datagrams SHOULD be used.

## Tunneling of ECN Marks

CONNECT-UDP does not create an IP-in-IP tunnel, so the guidance in {{?RFC6040}}
about transferring ECN marks between inner and outer IP headers does not apply.
There is no inner IP header in CONNECT-UDP tunnels.

Note that CONNECT-UDP clients do not have the ability in this specification to
control the ECN codepoints on UDP packets the proxy sends to the server, nor can
proxies communicate the markings of each UDP packet from server to proxy.

A CONNECT-UDP proxy MUST ignore ECN bits in the IP header of UDP packets
received from the server, and MUST set the ECN bits to Not-ECT on UDP packets

> t sends to the server. These do not relate to the ECN markings of packets sent

Author: ```suggestion
it sends to the server. These do not relate to the ECN markings of packets sent
```

data. To avoid this, HTTP/3 datagrams SHOULD be used.

## Tunneling of ECN Marks

CONNECT-UDP does not create an IP-in-IP tunnel, so the guidance in {{?RFC6040}}

> about transferring ECN marks between inner and outer IP headers does not apply.

Reviewer: There is no inner IP header in CONNECT-UDP, could we rephrase this sentence to make that clearer?

If a client or proxy with a connection containing a CONNECT-UDP stream disables

> congestion control in accordance with {{performance}}, it MUST NOT signal ECN

Reviewer: Perhaps we should move this paragraph to that section to make things simpler?

support on that connection. That is, it MUST mark all IP headers with the
Not-ECT codepoint. It MAY continue to report ECN feedback via ACK_ECN frames, as
the peer may not have disabled congestion control.

Note that CONNECT-UDP clients do not have the ability in this specification to

> control the ECN codepoints on datagrams the proxy sends to the server, nor can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
control the ECN codepoints on UDP packets the proxy sends to the server, nor can
```

> proxies communicate the markings of each incoming server packet to the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
proxies communicate the markings of each UDP packet from server to proxy.
```

> Nevertheless, a CONNECT-UDP proxy MUST NOT copy the ECT codepoint from the

Reviewer: This is hard to reason about, and I think I'm getting confused between this paragraph and the next. And the fact that a QUIC packet can carry multiple DATAGRAM frames makes things even harder. Could we instead say `A CONNECT-UDP proxy MUST ignore ECN bits in the IP header of UDP packets received from the server, and MUST NOT set the ECN bits on UDP packets it sends to the server.`
